README.md, before:

# Hospital Management System

The Hospital Management System is a Qt-based C++ application for managing patients, staff, billing, and medication logistics across a network of hospitals. It offers a clean tabbed interface for efficient hospital administration, supporting tasks like patient tracking, doctor/nurse assignment, billing, and pharmacy coordination.

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Qt 5.x or newer
- C++ compiler (e.g., GCC, Clang, or MSVC)
- `make` or a compatible build tool

### Build & Run

#### Option 1: Using Qt Creator
1. Open **Qt Creator**
2. Go to **File > Open File or Project...**
3. Select `HospitalManagementSystem.pro` from the project folder
4. Configure the project if prompted
5. Click **Build** and then **Run**

#### Option 2: Using Command Line
```bash
# Navigate to the project directory
cd /path/to/HospitalManagementSystem

# Generate Makefile
qmake HospitalManagementSystem.pro

# Compile the project
make

# Run the application
./HospitalManagementSystem         # Linux/macOS
open HospitalManagementSystem.app  # macOS
HospitalManagementSystem.exe       # Windows
```

---

## System Architecture

The system follows the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern:

- **Model**: Core logic in C++ classes like `Hospital`, `Patient`, `Doctor`, `Nurse`, `Pharmacy`, and `Drug`
- **View & Controller**: Qt-based GUI (`MainWindow`) with a tabbed interface
- **Controllers**: Singleton managers `HospitalSystem` and `PharmacySystem` coordinate global operations

---

### Core OOP Principles
- **Encapsulation**: All class attributes are private, accessed via getters/setters (e.g., `getDoctorID()`, `getHospitalID()`).
- **Composition**: Hospitals manage collections of `Patient`, `Doctor`, and `Nurse` objects; `Pharmacy` manages `Drug` and `Bill` objects.
- **Modular Classes**: Each class (e.g., `Patient`, `Doctor`, `Hospital`, `Pharmacy`) has a focused responsibility and minimal dependencies.
- **Singleton Pattern**: `HospitalSystem` and `PharmacySystem` are global managers used to coordinate application-wide logic from any part of the code.

---

## Main Features

### Patient Management
- Admit, relocate, discharge patients across hospitals
- View individual patient details and status

### Doctor Management
- View, add, remove, and relocate doctors
- Assign primary and attending doctors to patients
- Allow doctors to request discharges

### Nurse Management
- View, add, remove, and relocate nurses
- Assign nurses (max 2 patients per nurse)

### Billing System
- Daily charges update automatically
- Accept partial/full payments
- Generate reports for patients and hospitals

### Pharmacy Integration
- Request medications from pharmacies
- Track and pay pharmacy-related bills

### Hospital Network
- Manage staff/patient lists per hospital
- Monitor capacity and workload

### Real-Time Updates
- Automated daily updates for billing and patient stay tracking using Qt timers

---

## User Interface Overview

The interface is organized into the following tabs:

- **Patient Management**: Admit, relocate, discharge patients
- **Doctor Management**: Add, remove, view, or reassign doctors
- **Nurse Management**: Add, remove, view, or reassign nurses
- **Doctor-Patient**: Assign doctors, set primary doctors, request discharges
- **Nurse-Patient**: Assign nurses to patients
- **Billing**: View/calculate bills, collect payments, generate reports
- **Drug Delivery**: Order medications and track hospital pharmacy bills

---

## How to Test the Application

### 1. Add a Patient
- Fill in patient details
- Choose hospital, doctor, and nurse
- Set daily billing rate
- Click **"Add Patient"**

### 2. Assign a Doctor
- Go to the **Doctor-Patient** tab
- Enter doctor and patient IDs
- Click **"Assign Doctor"** or **"Set as Primary Doctor"**

### 3. Relocate a Patient
- Select a new hospital from dropdown
- Ensure doctor is valid at the destination
- Click **"Relocate Patient"**

### 4. View & Collect Payments
- Enter patient ID under **Billing**
- Click **"Calculate Bill"**
- Input amount and click **"Collect Payment"**

### 5. Request Drug Delivery
- Go to **Drug Delivery**
- Select hospital, pharmacy, and drug
- Click **"Request Delivery"** to generate a bill

### 6. Manage Staff
- Go to **Doctor Management** or **Nurse Management**
- Add new staff, relocate them between hospitals, or remove them by ID

---

## Sample Data

- **Doctor IDs**: `D1` to `D49` (auto-assigned across hospitals, 1 less than max to test add doctor functionality)
- **Nurse IDs**: `N1` to `N59` (auto-assigned across hospitals, 1 less than max to test add nurse functionality)
- **Patient IDs**:
  - `P001`: Alice Johnson (Hospital 0, Doctor D1, Nurse N1)
  - `P002`: Bob Smith (Hospital 0, Doctor D3, Nurse N6)
  - `P003`: Carla Diaz (Hospital 2, Doctor D7, Nurse N11)
  - `P004`: David Lee (Hospital 3, Doctor D10, Nurse N16)
  - `P005`: Eva Nguyen (Hospital 4, Doctor D13, Nurse N21)
  - You can add more through the UI
- **Hospitals**: Indexed `0` through `4`
- **Pharmacies**: `P1` to `P20`
- **Available Drugs**: Aspirin, Ibuprofen, Acetaminophen, Amoxicillin, Insulin

---

Commit message:

docs: update README.md with repository link and setup instructions

README.md, after:

# Hospital Management System

The Hospital Management System is a Qt-based C++ application for managing patients, staff, billing, and medication logistics across a network of hospitals. It offers a clean tabbed interface for efficient hospital administration, supporting tasks like patient tracking, doctor/nurse assignment, billing, and pharmacy coordination.

---

## GitHub Repository

The project is available on GitHub at [Hospital Management System](https://github.com/Hospital-Management-System-Project/HospitalManagementSystem).

### Clone the Repository
```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/Hospital-Management-System-Project/HospitalManagementSystem.git

# Navigate to the project directory
cd HospitalManagementSystem
```

### Setup and Configuration
1. Make sure Qt is installed on your system
2. Open the project using Qt Creator or your preferred IDE
3. Configure the build settings according to your environment
4. Build the project using the instructions below

---

## Getting Started

### Prerequisites
- Qt 5.x or newer
- C++ compiler (e.g., GCC, Clang, or MSVC)
- `make` or a compatible build tool

### Build & Run

#### Option 1: Using Qt Creator
1. Open **Qt Creator**
2. Go to **File > Open File or Project...**
3. Select `HospitalManagementSystem.pro` from the project folder
4. Configure the project if prompted
5. Click **Build** and then **Run**

#### Option 2: Using Command Line
```bash
# Navigate to the project directory
cd /path/to/HospitalManagementSystem

# Generate Makefile
qmake HospitalManagementSystem.pro

# Compile the project
make

# Run the application
./HospitalManagementSystem         # Linux/macOS
open HospitalManagementSystem.app  # macOS
HospitalManagementSystem.exe       # Windows
```

---

## System Architecture

The system follows the Model-View-Controller (MVC) pattern:

- **Model**: Core logic in C++ classes like `Hospital`, `Patient`, `Doctor`, `Nurse`, `Pharmacy`, and `Drug`
- **View & Controller**: Qt-based GUI (`MainWindow`) with a tabbed interface
- **Controllers**: Singleton managers `HospitalSystem` and `PharmacySystem` coordinate global operations

---

### Core OOP Principles
- **Encapsulation**: All class attributes are private, accessed via getters/setters (e.g., `getDoctorID()`, `getHospitalID()`).
- **Composition**: Hospitals manage collections of `Patient`, `Doctor`, and `Nurse` objects; `Pharmacy` manages `Drug` and `Bill` objects.
- **Modular Classes**: Each class (e.g., `Patient`, `Doctor`, `Hospital`, `Pharmacy`) has a focused responsibility and minimal dependencies.
- **Singleton Pattern**: `HospitalSystem` and `PharmacySystem` are global managers used to coordinate application-wide logic from any part of the code.

---

## Main Features

### Patient Management
- Admit, relocate, discharge patients across hospitals
- View individual patient details and status

### Doctor Management
- View, add, remove, and relocate doctors
- Assign primary and attending doctors to patients
- Allow doctors to request discharges

### Nurse Management
- View, add, remove, and relocate nurses
- Assign nurses (max 2 patients per nurse)

### Billing System
- Daily charges update automatically
- Accept partial/full payments
- Generate reports for patients and hospitals

### Pharmacy Integration
- Request medications from pharmacies
- Track and pay pharmacy-related bills

### Hospital Network
- Manage staff/patient lists per hospital
- Monitor capacity and workload

### Real-Time Updates
- Automated daily updates for billing and patient stay tracking using Qt timers

---

## User Interface Overview

The interface is organized into the following tabs:

- **Patient Management**: Admit, relocate, discharge patients
- **Doctor Management**: Add, remove, view, or reassign doctors
- **Nurse Management**: Add, remove, view, or reassign nurses
- **Doctor-Patient**: Assign doctors, set primary doctors, request discharges
- **Nurse-Patient**: Assign nurses to patients
- **Billing**: View/calculate bills, collect payments, generate reports
- **Drug Delivery**: Order medications and track hospital pharmacy bills

---

## How to Test the Application

### 1. Add a Patient
- Fill in patient details
- Choose hospital, doctor, and nurse
- Set daily billing rate
- Click **"Add Patient"**

### 2. Assign a Doctor
- Go to the **Doctor-Patient** tab
- Enter doctor and patient IDs
- Click **"Assign Doctor"** or **"Set as Primary Doctor"**

### 3. Relocate a Patient
- Select a new hospital from dropdown
- Ensure doctor is valid at the destination
- Click **"Relocate Patient"**

### 4. View & Collect Payments
- Enter patient ID under **Billing**
- Click **"Calculate Bill"**
- Input amount and click **"Collect Payment"**

### 5. Request Drug Delivery
- Go to **Drug Delivery**
- Select hospital, pharmacy, and drug
- Click **"Request Delivery"** to generate a bill

### 6. Manage Staff
- Go to **Doctor Management** or **Nurse Management**
- Add new staff, relocate them between hospitals, or remove them by ID

---

## Sample Data

- **Doctor IDs**: `D1` to `D49` (auto-assigned across hospitals, 1 less than max to test add doctor functionality)
- **Nurse IDs**: `N1` to `N59` (auto-assigned across hospitals, 1 less than max to test add nurse functionality)
- **Patient IDs**:
  - `P001`: Alice Johnson (Hospital 0, Doctor D1, Nurse N1)
  - `P002`: Bob Smith (Hospital 0, Doctor D3, Nurse N6)
  - `P003`: Carla Diaz (Hospital 2, Doctor D7, Nurse N11)
  - `P004`: David Lee (Hospital 3, Doctor D10, Nurse N16)
  - `P005`: Eva Nguyen (Hospital 4, Doctor D13, Nurse N21)
  - You can add more through the UI
- **Hospitals**: Indexed `0` through `4`
- **Pharmacies**: `P1` to `P20`
- **Available Drugs**: Aspirin, Ibuprofen, Acetaminophen, Amoxicillin, Insulin

---
